README.md, before:

ZoneMinder
==========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder.png)](https://travis-ci.org/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder) [![Bountysource](https://api.bountysource.com/badge/team?team_id=204&style=bounties_received)](https://www.bountysource.com/teams/zoneminder/issues?utm_source=ZoneMinder&utm_medium=shield&utm_campaign=bounties_received)

All documentation for ZoneMinder is now online at http://www.zoneminder.com/wiki/index.php/Documentation

## Overview

ZoneMinder is an integrated set of applications which provide a complete surveillance solution allowing capture, analysis, recording and monitoring of any CCTV or security cameras attached to a Linux based machine. It is designed to run on distributions which support the Video For Linux (V4L) interface and has been tested with video cameras attached to BTTV cards, various USB cameras and also supports most IP network cameras. 

## Requirements

If you are installing ZoneMinder from a package, that package should provide all of the needed core components.

### Packages

If you are compiling ZoneMinder from source, the below list contains the packages needed to get ZoneMinder built:

#### Ubuntu

A fresh build based on master branch running Ubuntu 1204 LTS.  Will likely work for other versions as well.

```bash
root@host:~# aptitude install -y apache2 mysql-server php5 php5-mysql build-essential libmysqlclient-dev libssl-dev libbz2-dev libpcre3-dev libdbi-perl libarchive-zip-perl libdate-manip-perl libdevice-serialport-perl libmime-perl libpcre3 libwww-perl libdbd-mysql-perl libsys-mmap-perl yasm automake autoconf libjpeg8-dev libjpeg8 apache2-mpm-prefork libapache2-mod-php5 php5-cli libphp-serialization-perl libgnutls-dev libjpeg8-dev libavcodec-dev libavformat-dev libswscale-dev libavutil-dev libv4l-dev libtool ffmpeg libnetpbm10-dev libavdevice-dev libmime-lite-perl dh-autoreconf dpatch;

root@host:~# git clone https://github.com/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder.git zoneminder;
root@host:~# cd zoneminder;
root@host:~# ln -s distros/ubuntu1204 debian;
root@host:~# dpkg-checkbuilddeps;
root@host:~# dpkg-buildpackage;
```

One level above you'll now find a deb package matching the architecture of the build host:

```bash
root@host:~# ls -1 ~/zoneminder*;
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.changes
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1.dsc
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1.tar.gz
```

The dpkg command itself does not resolve dependencies. That's what high-level interfaces like aptitude and apt-get are normally for. Unfortunately, unlike RPM, there's no easy way to install a separate deb package not contained with any repository.

To overcome this "limitation" we'll use dpkg only to install the zoneminder package and apt-get to fetch all needed dependencies afterwards. Running dpkg-reconfigure in the end will ensure that the setup scripts e.g. for database provisioning were executed.

```bash
root@host:~# dpkg -i /root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb; apt-get install -f;
root@host:~# dpkg-reconfigure zoneminder;
```
Alternatively you may also use gdebi to automatically resolve dependencies during installation:

```bash
root@host:~# aptitude install -y gdebi;
root@host:~# gdebi /root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb;
```
```bash
sudo apt-get install apache2 mysql-server php5 php5-mysql build-essential libmysqlclient-dev libssl-dev libbz2-dev \
libpcre3-dev libdbi-perl libarchive-zip-perl libdate-manip-perl libdevice-serialport-perl libmime-perl libpcre3 \
libwww-perl libdbd-mysql-perl libsys-mmap-perl yasm automake autoconf libjpeg-turbo8-dev libjpeg-turbo8 \
apache2-mpm-prefork libapache2-mod-php5 php5-cli
```

#### Debian

A fresh build based on master branch running Debian 7 (wheezy):

```bash
root@host:~# aptitude install -y apache2 mysql-server php5 php5-mysql build-essential libmysqlclient-dev libssl-dev libbz2-dev libpcre3-dev libdbi-perl libarchive-zip-perl libdate-manip-perl libdevice-serialport-perl libmime-perl libpcre3 libwww-perl libdbd-mysql-perl libsys-mmap-perl yasm automake autoconf libjpeg8-dev libjpeg8 apache2-mpm-prefork libapache2-mod-php5 php5-cli libphp-serialization-perl libgnutls-dev libjpeg8-dev libavcodec-dev libavformat-dev libswscale-dev libavutil-dev libv4l-dev libtool ffmpeg libnetpbm10-dev libavdevice-dev libmime-lite-perl dh-autoreconf dpatch;

root@host:~# git clone https://github.com/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder.git zoneminder;
root@host:~# cd zoneminder;
root@host:~# ln -s distros/debian;
root@host:~# dpkg-checkbuilddeps;
root@host:~# dpkg-buildpackage;
```

One level above you'll now find a deb package matching the architecture of the build host:

```bash
root@host:~# ls -1 ~/zoneminder*;
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.changes
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1.dsc
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1.tar.gz
```

The dpkg command itself does not resolve dependencies. That's what high-level interfaces like aptitude and apt-get are normally for. Unfortunately, unlike RPM, there's no easy way to install a separate deb package not contained with any repository.

To overcome this "limitation" we'll use dpkg only to install the zoneminder package and apt-get to fetch all needed dependencies afterwards. Running dpkg-reconfigure in the end will ensure that the setup scripts e.g. for database provisioning were executed.

```bash
root@host:~# dpkg -i /root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb; apt-get install -f;
root@host:~# dpkg-reconfigure zoneminder;
```
Alternatively you may also use gdebi to automatically resolve dependencies during installation:

```bash
root@host:~# aptitude install -y gdebi;
root@host:~# gdebi /root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb;
```

#### CentOS / RHEL

Additional repositories must be added before one can build zoneminder on CentOS or RHEL:

1. RepoForge (formerly RPMForge) http://repoforge.org/use/
2. EPEL https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL
3. Optional RPMFusion: http://rpmfusion.org/ [SEE NOTE]
 
[NOTE]<br>
The RPMFusion repo contains significantly newer versions of ffmpeg and vlc. This leads to significantly better camera support. However, the RPMFusion repo contains packages that conflict with the other two repos. In order to resolve this, one must also install the yum priorities pacakge and use that to prioritize your repos in the following order:

1. Base
2. RPMFusion
3. EPEL
4. RPMForge

For instructions on yum priorities, visit this page:
http://wiki.centos.org/PackageManagement/Yum/Priorities

Once your repos are in order, install the following:
```bash
sudo yum install automake bzip2-devel ffmpeg ffmpeg-devel gnutls-devel httpd libjpeg-turbo libjpeg-turbo-devel mysql-devel mysql-server pcre-devel \
perl-Archive-Tar perl-Archive-Zip perl-Convert-BinHex perl-Date-Manip perl-DBD-MySQL perl-DBI perl-Device-SerialPort perl-Email-Date-Format perl-IO-stringy \
perl-IO-Zlib perl-MailTools perl-MIME-Lite perl-MIME-tools perl-MIME-Types perl-Module-Load perl-Package-Constants perl-Sys-Mmap perl-Time-HiRes \
perl-TimeDate perl-YAML-Syck php php-cli php-mysql x264 vlc-devel vlc-core libcurl libcurl-devel
```

#### Docker

Docker is a system to run applications inside isolated containers. ZoneMinder, and the ZM webserver, will run using the 
Dockerfile contained in this repository. However, there is still work needed to ensure that the main ZM features work 
properly and are documented. 

### ffmpeg

This release of ZoneMinder has been tested on and works with ffmpeg version N-55540-g93f4277.


## Contribution Model and  Development

* Source hosted at [GitHub](https://github.com/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder/)
* Report issues/questions/feature requests on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder/issues)

Pull requests are very welcome!  If you would like to contribute, please follow
the following steps.

1. Fork the repo
2. Open an issue at our [GitHub Issues Tracker](https://github.com/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder/issues).
   Describe the bug that you've found, or the feature which you're asking for.
   Jot down the issue number (e.g. 456)
3. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b 456-my-new-feature`)
4. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Added some feature'`)
   It is preferred that you 'commit early and often' instead of bunching all
   changes into a single commit.
5. Push your branch to your fork on github (`git push origin 456-my-new-feature`)
6. Create new Pull Request
7. The team will then review, discuss and hopefully merge your changes.

[![Analytics](https://ga-beacon.appspot.com/UA-15147273-6/ZoneMinder/README.md)](https://github.com/igrigorik/ga-beacon)

Commit message:

Add zmeditconfigdata.s script to source

README.md, after:

ZoneMinder
==========

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder.png)](https://travis-ci.org/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder) [![Bountysource](https://api.bountysource.com/badge/team?team_id=204&style=bounties_received)](https://www.bountysource.com/teams/zoneminder/issues?utm_source=ZoneMinder&utm_medium=shield&utm_campaign=bounties_received)

All documentation for ZoneMinder is now online at http://www.zoneminder.com/wiki/index.php/Documentation

## Overview

ZoneMinder is an integrated set of applications which provide a complete surveillance solution allowing capture, analysis, recording and monitoring of any CCTV or security cameras attached to a Linux based machine. It is designed to run on distributions which support the Video For Linux (V4L) interface and has been tested with video cameras attached to BTTV cards, various USB cameras and also supports most IP network cameras. 

## Requirements

If you are installing ZoneMinder from a package, that package should provide all of the needed core components.

### Packages

If you are compiling ZoneMinder from source, the below list contains the packages needed to get ZoneMinder built:

#### Ubuntu

A fresh build based on master branch running Ubuntu 1204 LTS.  Will likely work for other versions as well.

```bash
root@host:~# aptitude install -y apache2 mysql-server php5 php5-mysql build-essential libmysqlclient-dev libssl-dev libbz2-dev libpcre3-dev libdbi-perl libarchive-zip-perl libdate-manip-perl libdevice-serialport-perl libmime-perl libpcre3 libwww-perl libdbd-mysql-perl libsys-mmap-perl yasm automake autoconf libjpeg8-dev libjpeg8 apache2-mpm-prefork libapache2-mod-php5 php5-cli libphp-serialization-perl libgnutls-dev libjpeg8-dev libavcodec-dev libavformat-dev libswscale-dev libavutil-dev libv4l-dev libtool ffmpeg libnetpbm10-dev libavdevice-dev libmime-lite-perl dh-autoreconf dpatch;

root@host:~# git clone https://github.com/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder.git zoneminder;
root@host:~# cd zoneminder;
root@host:~# ln -s distros/ubuntu1204 debian;
root@host:~# dpkg-checkbuilddeps;
root@host:~# dpkg-buildpackage;
```

One level above you'll now find a deb package matching the architecture of the build host:

```bash
root@host:~# ls -1 ~/zoneminder*;
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.changes
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1.dsc
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1.tar.gz
```

The dpkg command itself does not resolve dependencies. That's what high-level interfaces like aptitude and apt-get are normally for. Unfortunately, unlike RPM, there's no easy way to install a separate deb package not contained with any repository.

To overcome this "limitation" we'll use dpkg only to install the zoneminder package and apt-get to fetch all needed dependencies afterwards. Running dpkg-reconfigure in the end will ensure that the setup scripts e.g. for database provisioning were executed.

```bash
root@host:~# dpkg -i /root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb; apt-get install -f;
root@host:~# dpkg-reconfigure zoneminder;
```
Alternatively you may also use gdebi to automatically resolve dependencies during installation:

```bash
root@host:~# aptitude install -y gdebi;
root@host:~# gdebi /root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb;
```
```bash
sudo apt-get install apache2 mysql-server php5 php5-mysql build-essential libmysqlclient-dev libssl-dev libbz2-dev \
libpcre3-dev libdbi-perl libarchive-zip-perl libdate-manip-perl libdevice-serialport-perl libmime-perl libpcre3 \
libwww-perl libdbd-mysql-perl libsys-mmap-perl yasm automake autoconf libjpeg-turbo8-dev libjpeg-turbo8 \
apache2-mpm-prefork libapache2-mod-php5 php5-cli
```

#### Debian

A fresh build based on master branch running Debian 7 (wheezy):

```bash
root@host:~# aptitude install -y apache2 mysql-server php5 php5-mysql build-essential libmysqlclient-dev libssl-dev libbz2-dev libpcre3-dev libdbi-perl libarchive-zip-perl libdate-manip-perl libdevice-serialport-perl libmime-perl libpcre3 libwww-perl libdbd-mysql-perl libsys-mmap-perl yasm automake autoconf libjpeg8-dev libjpeg8 apache2-mpm-prefork libapache2-mod-php5 php5-cli libphp-serialization-perl libgnutls-dev libjpeg8-dev libavcodec-dev libavformat-dev libswscale-dev libavutil-dev libv4l-dev libtool ffmpeg libnetpbm10-dev libavdevice-dev libmime-lite-perl dh-autoreconf dpatch;

root@host:~# git clone https://github.com/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder.git zoneminder;
root@host:~# cd zoneminder;
root@host:~# ln -s distros/debian;
root@host:~# dpkg-checkbuilddeps;
root@host:~# dpkg-buildpackage;
```

One level above you'll now find a deb package matching the architecture of the build host:

```bash
root@host:~# ls -1 ~/zoneminder*;
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.changes
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1.dsc
/root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1.tar.gz
```

The dpkg command itself does not resolve dependencies. That's what high-level interfaces like aptitude and apt-get are normally for. Unfortunately, unlike RPM, there's no easy way to install a separate deb package not contained with any repository.

To overcome this "limitation" we'll use dpkg only to install the zoneminder package and apt-get to fetch all needed dependencies afterwards. Running dpkg-reconfigure in the end will ensure that the setup scripts e.g. for database provisioning were executed.

```bash
root@host:~# dpkg -i /root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb; apt-get install -f;
root@host:~# dpkg-reconfigure zoneminder;
```
Alternatively you may also use gdebi to automatically resolve dependencies during installation:

```bash
root@host:~# aptitude install -y gdebi;
root@host:~# gdebi /root/zoneminder_1.26.4-1_amd64.deb;
```

#### CentOS / RHEL

Additional repositories must be added before one can build zoneminder on CentOS or RHEL:

1. RepoForge (formerly RPMForge) http://repoforge.org/use/
2. EPEL https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL
3. Optional RPMFusion: http://rpmfusion.org/ [SEE NOTE]
 
[NOTE]<br>
The RPMFusion repo contains significantly newer versions of ffmpeg and vlc. This leads to significantly better camera support. However, the RPMFusion repo contains packages that conflict with the other two repos. In order to resolve this, one must also install the yum priorities pacakge and use that to prioritize your repos in the following order:

1. Base
2. RPMFusion
3. EPEL
4. RPMForge

For instructions on yum priorities, visit this page:
http://wiki.centos.org/PackageManagement/Yum/Priorities

Once your repos are in order, install the following:
```bash
sudo yum install automake bzip2-devel ffmpeg ffmpeg-devel gnutls-devel httpd libjpeg-turbo libjpeg-turbo-devel mysql-devel mysql-server pcre-devel \
perl-Archive-Tar perl-Archive-Zip perl-Convert-BinHex perl-Date-Manip perl-DBD-MySQL perl-DBI perl-Device-SerialPort perl-Email-Date-Format perl-IO-stringy \
perl-IO-Zlib perl-MailTools perl-MIME-Lite perl-MIME-tools perl-MIME-Types perl-Module-Load perl-Package-Constants perl-Sys-Mmap perl-Time-HiRes \
perl-TimeDate perl-YAML-Syck php php-cli php-mysql x264 vlc-devel vlc-core libcurl libcurl-devel
```

#### Docker

Docker is a system to run applications inside isolated containers. ZoneMinder, and the ZM webserver, will run using the 
Dockerfile contained in this repository. However, there is still work needed to ensure that the main ZM features work 
properly and are documented. 

### ffmpeg

This release of ZoneMinder has been tested on and works with ffmpeg version N-55540-g93f4277.


## Contribution Model and  Development

* Source hosted at [GitHub](https://github.com/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder/)
* Report issues/questions/feature requests on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder/issues)

Pull requests are very welcome!  If you would like to contribute, please follow
the following steps.

1. Fork the repo
2. Open an issue at our [GitHub Issues Tracker](https://github.com/ZoneMinder/ZoneMinder/issues).
   Describe the bug that you've found, or the feature which you're asking for.
   Jot down the issue number (e.g. 456)
3. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b 456-my-new-feature`)
4. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Added some feature'`)
   It is preferred that you 'commit early and often' instead of bunching all
   changes into a single commit.
5. Push your branch to your fork on github (`git push origin 456-my-new-feature`)
6. Create new Pull Request
7. The team will then review, discuss and hopefully merge your changes.

### Package Maintainters
Many of the ZoneMinder configration variable default values are not configurable at build time through autotools or cmake.  A new tool called *zmeditconfigdata.sh* has been added to allow package maintainers to manipulate any variable stored in ConfigData.pm without patching the source. 

For example, let's say I have created a new ZoneMinder package that contains the cambolzola javascript file.  However, by default cambozola support is turned off.  To fix that, add this to the pacakging script:
```bash
./zmeditconfigdata.sh ZM_OPT_CAMBOZOLA yes
```

Note that zmeditconfigdata.sh is intended to be called prior to running cmake or configure.

[![Analytics](https://ga-beacon.appspot.com/UA-15147273-6/ZoneMinder/README.md)](https://github.com/igrigorik/ga-beacon)
